What is the Internet of Things (IoT)?
Internet of Things definition: The vast network of devices connected to the Internet, including smart phones and tablets and almost anything with a sensor on it – cars, machines in production plants, jet engines, oil drills, wearable devices, and more. These “things” collect and exchange data.

IoT – and the machine-to-machine (M2M) technology behind it – are bringing a kind of “super visibility” to nearly every industry. Imagine utilities and telcos that can predict and prevent service outages, airlines that can remotely monitor and optimize plane performance, and healthcare organizations that can base treatment on real-time genome analysis. The business possibilities are endless.  
Six things you need to know when building an IoT strategy
Along with unique new opportunities come new challenges. Here are some of the essential capabilities you’ll need to meet them head on – and to maximize the possibilities the IoT presents.
IoT Security
As companies collect data beyond traditional IT boundaries, IoT security measures will be critical. Some key considerations include being able to secure and monitor devices, encrypt sensitive data, and build risk mitigation into systems.
Streaming Data
IoT applications accumulate more data than traditional batch processing can manage. Having capabilities for streaming data continually is key to reliably feeding real-time business processes and extracting timely insights.
IoT Platform
An IoT platform makes it possible to develop, deploy, and manage IoT and M2M applications. Automate processes and network connections, store and manage sensor data, connect and control your devices, and analyze your data.
IoT Applications
“Next generation” IoT applications must be able to capture, collect, interpret, and act on vast amounts of information – detecting connectivity gaps, handling interruptions, and meeting specific business and industry requirements.
IoT Cloud
IoT cloud solutions provide affordable access to high-speed data networks – to significantly extend the reach and usability of your IoT applications. They can also offer data storage, processing, analysis, and remote device management.
IoT Data : IoT data management technologies ensure that you can collect the right data at the right time, even when connectivity is interrupted. Rely on in-memory systems to process massive data volumes generated by thousands of devices.
